README.md, before:

# Fragment Ensemble Scoring (FRESCO)

This repo contains code describing [Fragment Ensemble Scoring (FRESCO)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.11.21.517375v1), a method for hit-finding from a fragment screen. FRESCO uses unsupervised machine learning to model a distribution of pharmacophore combinations in 3D space, which is then used to conduct a virtual screen on the EnamineREAL library for discovery of moelcular hits. This method is unique in directly predicting hit compounds from a fragment screen without any assaying of binding activity required, and has demonstrated success computationally on a retrospective analysis of COVID Moonshot compounds as well as in prospectively discovering hit compounds for both SARS-CoV-2 Mpro and SARS-CoV-2 nsp3-Mac1.

The repo contains all of the code necessary for fitting a model on fragment screen data and scoring molecules, but not the EnamineREAL datadue to storage limitations.

## Workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
subgraph "FRESCO Workflow"
subgraph EnamineREAL
A[(VirtualFlow\nConformers)] --> B(Pharmacophore Descriptors)
end

subgraph Ensemble of  Fragment-Protein Complexes
Mpro[(Mpro)] --> PharmD(Pharmacophore Distributions)
Mac-1[(Mac-1)] --> PharmD
PharmD -- scikit-learn + scipy interp1d--> KDE(KDEs of pharmacophore distances)
end

subgraph Virtual Screening
B --> E(Score Library)
KDE --> E
E --> F(Choose Top-50k)
F --> G(Filtering)
G -- "physchem (lead-like)"--> H(Clustering)
G -- PAINS --> H
G -- "at most one chiral center" --> H
G -- remove duplicate tautomers --> H

end
end
```

# Usage

## Installation

Functions for utilising FRESCO can be used as a python library by importing the `fresco` module via `pip install .*` in the root directory of the repo, which should only take several seconds.

The conda environment used for generating the results in the paper can be recreated by running `conda env create -f environment.yml` or `environment_mac.yml` in the root directory of the repo. The `fresco` module has to be installed in this environment via `pip install .*` in the root directory of the repo.

This has been tested on intel macOS and on linux. Currently figuring out how to get the environment working on Apple silicon macOS!

## Example

The demo notebook `demo.ipynb` contains a short example of how to train FRESCO on fragment-protein complexes, and use it to score a molecule.

Commit message:

updated mac yml, fix for kdepy

README.md, after:

# Fragment Ensemble Scoring (FRESCO)

This repo contains code describing [Fragment Ensemble Scoring (FRESCO)](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2022.11.21.517375v1), a method for hit-finding from a fragment screen. FRESCO uses unsupervised machine learning to model a distribution of pharmacophore combinations in 3D space, which is then used to conduct a virtual screen on the EnamineREAL library for discovery of moelcular hits. This method is unique in directly predicting hit compounds from a fragment screen without any assaying of binding activity required, and has demonstrated success computationally on a retrospective analysis of COVID Moonshot compounds as well as in prospectively discovering hit compounds for both SARS-CoV-2 Mpro and SARS-CoV-2 nsp3-Mac1.

The repo contains all of the code necessary for fitting a model on fragment screen data and scoring molecules, but not the EnamineREAL datadue to storage limitations.

## Workflow

```mermaid
flowchart TD
subgraph "FRESCO Workflow"
subgraph EnamineREAL
A[(VirtualFlow\nConformers)] --> B(Pharmacophore Descriptors)
end

subgraph Ensemble of  Fragment-Protein Complexes
Mpro[(Mpro)] --> PharmD(Pharmacophore Distributions)
Mac-1[(Mac-1)] --> PharmD
PharmD -- scikit-learn + scipy interp1d--> KDE(KDEs of pharmacophore distances)
end

subgraph Virtual Screening
B --> E(Score Library)
KDE --> E
E --> F(Choose Top-50k)
F --> G(Filtering)
G -- "physchem (lead-like)"--> H(Clustering)
G -- PAINS --> H
G -- "at most one chiral center" --> H
G -- remove duplicate tautomers --> H

end
end
```

# Usage

## Installation

Functions for utilising FRESCO can be used as a python library by importing the `fresco` module via `pip install .*` in the root directory of the repo, which should only take several seconds.

The conda environment used for generating the results in the paper can be recreated by running `conda env create -f environment.yml` or `environment_mac.yml` in the root directory of the repo. The `fresco` module has to be installed in this environment via `pip install .*` in the root directory of the repo.

This has been tested on intel macOS and on linux. For apple silicon macOS, it seems like `kdepy` is causing an issue, so the `environment_mac.yml` file does not include `kdepy` - to install that, run:
```
git clone git@github.com:tommyod/KDEpy.git
cd KDEpy
pip install .
```
as detailed [here](https://github.com/tommyod/KDEpy/issues/114).

## Example

The demo notebook `demo.ipynb` contains a short example of how to train FRESCO on fragment-protein complexes, and use it to score a molecule.
